# Undergrad Work
Below is a portfolio of the major papers and presentations from courses and research I've done in my time in undergrad, related to my majors of Biology and Mathematics w/ Statistics concentration. The projects themselves are from a variety of classes, some of which I've described below.

## Biology Research
My research in the Wheaton College Biology Department has produced two publications and two conference presentations. Our work focuses on the general ecology and the environmental factors influencing gonad formation in the freshwater jellyfish *Craspedacusta sowerbii*, an invasive species originally from China now found on every continent except Antarctica. In addition to the above, I produced a [preliminary report](biology_research/BIOL_ResearchReport_Spring23.pdf) on my work that formed the basis of my future publications.

## Biology Coursework
* Modeling the Systems of Life: In this class, I was introduced to biological research methods and the model organism *Cordylophora caspia*, an invasive, colonial hydroid found in the class Hydrozoa. I conducted PCR and Gel Electrophoresis on hydranth (feeding polyp) DNA, wrote a [literature review](undergrad_biology/biol252_literature_review.pdf), and conducted a half-semester long research project on the effects of eutrophication of C. caspia growth and wrote the [research report](undergrad_biology/biol252_research_paper.pdf).
* Invertebrate Zoology: In this class, I was introduced to dozens of invertebrate phyla and saw example organisms from almost all of them in a laboratory setting. I conducted vivisections on whole shellfish, wrote and presented a [literature review](undergrad_biology/biol335_review_paper.docx) on the invasive tunicate *Ciona intestinalis*, and participated in a field study where I, along with the rest of the class, collected and identified dozens of invertebrates from a local pond. I invite you to read my [research report](undergrad_biology/biol335_review_paper.pdf) and [my presentation](undergrad_biology/biol_335_topic_presentation.pdf).
* Genetics: In this class, I learned about DNA, its structure, and its roles in cell processes such as mitosis and mRNA transcription. I, along with two lab partners, conducted a controlled cross to examine the inheritance of mutations in the fruit fly Drosophila, compiling these in a [report](undergrad_biology/biol356_report.pdf) and exposited journal articles to the class.
* Advanced Cell Biology and Development: In this class, I got to work with HepG2 cell culture and experimentation, as well as some modeling and observation of embryonic development in various animals. I conducted an experiment and wrote a [report](undergrad_biology/biol335_cellreport.pdf) on the effects of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid, ASA) on HepG2 cell proliferation.

**Other relevant courses:** Ecology and Evolution, Marine and Tropical Ecology, Environmental Ethics, Organic Chemistry, Introduction to Bioinformatics

## Mathematics Research
I participated in two research projects in the Wheaton College Mathematics Department. The first focused on applying mathematics to serve those in danger of losing housing in Chicago's South Side, and I produced a [poster](math_research/research_poster.pdf) detailing a model used to predict homes at risk of being bought by buyers seeking to take advantage of low-income families. I also wrote a [preliminary report](math_research/research_commcenter_impacts.html) looking into the impacts of a new community center in the South Side, and this research has been used in a new grant proposal for that center. 

My second research project involved writing a Python-based Jupyter Book intended for high school and college instructors to introduce mathematics and Python skills to students, with a hope of using this book to train teachers in the Tigray region of Ethiopia. The book is currently available on the Open Textbook Library and is visible [here](https://open.umn.edu/opentextbooks/textbooks/1697). Included in this was a side project, for which I submitted work on clique enumeration with a professor.

## Mathematics Coursework
* **Introduction to Upper-Level Math**: This class taught the history and philosophy of math as well as the process by which mathematical research is done in the 21st century. I learned and extensively practiced mathematical writing with LaTeX and exposited a journal article in applied mathematics to the class with one partner, writing a [review](undergrad_math/math301_expository_review.pdf) and giving a [presentation](undergrad_math/math301_expository_presentation.pdf) on that paper.
* **Mathematical Statistics**: This course took the principles of Probability Theory and applied them to modern data analysis with concepts such as estimators, hypothesis testing, regression, and ANOVA. This course also taught these concepts in relation to R, and I applied these to a [statistical exploration](undergrad_math/math463_statistical_analysis_project.html) on a dataset of my choosing. 
* **Mathematical Modeling**: In this class, I learned about the process of making mathematical models to describe real-world phenomena. The class taught concepts such as linear regression, interpolation, splines, numerical solutions to differential equations, and basic linear programming. I applied these concepts into two reports involving these techniques, one on fishery management and another on shipping optimization. (links to be added)
* **Machine Learning**: This course introduced basic machine learning concepts such as the k-nearest neighbors model, PCA, and penalized regression and taught them largely in relation to R, and I applied these into a [project report](undergrad_math/math386_machinelearning_model.html) on predicting the levels of microscopic particulate matter in air based on atmospheric conditions. 

**Other relevant courses:** Linear Algebra, Probability Theory, Advanced Geometry, Real Analysis, Differential Equations